PERSONAL INFORMATION
Yuri Konoplev


 
193318, Russia, Saint-Petersburg, prospect Pjatiletok, house 8, corpus 4, apt. 153
 +7-911-219-7664      +7-812-440-12-74    
juri.konoplev@gmail.com 


 Skype: old3r-br0ther
 Github: j0k
 LinkedIn: yuri-konoplev
 Fb: Yuri Konoplev
 Tw: @keytheorem
 Tele: @bimodaling
 Homepage: juri-konoplev.pro
Sex Male | Date of birth 01/01/1989 | Place of Birth Moscow 


AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND INTEREST
Graduated in Computer Science and Neuroscience. 6 years’ experience in software development: finance tech, neuro tech, blockchain, compression algorithms, Python, C++, Wolfram Mathematica and MATLAB. Familiar with Github flow and Unit testing. Areas of interest: signal processing, development and engineering in general, biofeedback protocols, virtual reality, brain-computer interfaces, human-computer interaction, computer languages, artificial intelligence, deep learning, algorithms, crypto-currencies and blockchain, automation, startups, lucid dreams, science communication and social psychology.

Graduated in Computer Science and Neuroscience. 7 years’ experience in software development: finance
tech, neuro tech, blockchain, compression algorithms, artificial intelligence, Python, C++, Wolfram
Mathematica and MATLAB. Familiar with Github flow, Unit testing, microservice architecture and KISS
principle. Areas of interest: software development and engineering in general, useful tools, AI and
machine learning in general, coding styles, high-performance algorithms and optimization, recurrent
neural networks, biofeedback protocols, start-ups,

lucid dreams, science communication, assisting, zero-
budget marketing, psychology and completed

products with users. Develop paired programming
practice, mastering SCRUM and 2-week sprints, use
Kanban and learn LEAN.
My today workflow is combining 80/20 principle and
win-win approach, choosing most valuable and
relevant targets. I determinate project foundation
and proportionate targets to that foundation. If it’s
necessary to deliver specific thing I mark it as
important and focus my primary time on it. I build
my daily process based on realistic timing and comfortable daily workflow with relax and body respect.
Create pipeline which leads to success via small, visible and inspirable steps. Each teammate has own
favorite things and worldview on how something can be done/delivered and what makes happy, I
communicate with that point of view with respect and motivation. People’s difference and identities are
additional forces for motion. When key target is clear it useful to project it into SMARTER target basis. I
minimize time and risk to time for key targets. I create support targets and markup support area to
highlight grounds for stable development. Some key metrics will be visible only in driving and after
achieving some threshold. Part of result work can be copied from already done perfect works using
“Copy It” principle. When something goes wrong for several cycles – I make focus on that fails, reframe
approach, make change in effort points which look can play leverage role in solution, SWOT analysis also
helps. By the way I’m flexible with described approach, any improvements or established rules. Suppose
that for most moments key element is in proactive action and coordinated action (for team) and its
good when it brings bright and desired future with ecological relation to the now moment.
My chosen personal developing quality for 2023 is fast timings during negotiations.

Launched 4 companies from ∅ : 2 in Russia [VR/languages], 1 in Cyprus [fintech/algotrading], 1 in USA [neurotech/mobile app]. Results: 2 fails, 1 - +/-, 1 – success [fintech]. 


WORK EXPERIENCE
 

 2021.12 – 2022.07 Huawei, Cloud Gaming Team
Role: Team-leader | full-time, St. Petersburg
Keywords: upscaling, super-resolution, video/image processing, neural nets, #core #entertainment
Used technologies:
▪ PyTorch, Tensorflow, OpenCV
▪ Clear.ML, Docker
▪ Python
In-short: as team we researched four dimensions to improve Cloud Gaming and Metaverse experience:
1) video formats H.264, H.265, 2) popular games, 3) network and 4) CPU/GPU utilization. Result: focus on
video with super-resolution for up-scaling. Created neural architectures, configurable learning
infrastructure and web+console utils to check the result.
Team size: 5 our team, 12 full-team with co-team in China, Company size: 500 000

2020.03 – 2021.07


Software Product (“Программный продукт”)
Head of Artificial Intelligence Direction (St. Petersburg) // full time 

Used technologies:
Deep Learning with Tensor Flow & PyTorch
Text understanding/ Emotion recognition / Transfer learning / Deep Net visualization
Python / JS

Launching AI projects for text and emotion recognitions & understanding. #beginning   
Team size: 6  , Company size: 500+


2019.08 – 2020.01 






Adoria Soft
Software Engineer // Distant work, full/part-time   

Used technologies:
Javascript, Typescript
Java
Blockchain cryptography

I translated VeriBlock wallet from Java to JS and then into Typescript. It’s opensource now. We have decentralized team and efficiently used JIRA, github flow and calls inside the team.
 
Team: 7 



2019.03 – 2019.06 






Waves Platform 
Software Engineer at Social Net project // Moscow 

Used technologies:
RIDE for dApps,
JavaScript, C++ for a little

Our Social Net project was firstly mentioned here. The result of my work were 2 tools to work with Waves Blockchain and the smartcontract which works like social profile (with technical documentation). 
 
Team size: 4  at the start, 9 at the end. Company size: 100+


2016.12 -  






TuSion – Tune your Vision
Founder, CTO then C Research Officer // St. Petersburg , New York 
Twitter
Used technologies:
Neuroheadsets: NeuroSky BrainWave, BrainLink, Muse
Kotlin, Java, Android
Processing for Generative Art

TuSion is a platform and mobile app that improves cognitive abilities in terms of concentration and relaxation levels, reduces stress levels and helps treat some psychological problems. From other side Tusion is neural communication via Art App oriented for well-tuned brain development. It is like cold shower for your brain ☺ The main idea is to enhance plastic or liquid perception both as brain KPI. Imagine the perception game based on visual objects – that is Tusion. The foundation of Tusion is a big role of perception gestalts and A.Deikman and V.Petrenko papers on bimodal consciousness both rhythmic pictures. It’s the most beautiful app for neuroheadsets which I ever thought about. TuSion raised 170K euro from angel invester and Starta Accelerator, showed the app on World Mobile Congress (Barcelona), pitched startup at Polar Bear Pitching in Oulu (Finland), VK Fest, present app at SPIEF’2018 and pitched it lot of times in New York. We pivoted several times: from art to neurogaming then to mindfulness B2B app and then to neuromarketing tool. Also we organized 1 brain-hackathon at Ingria place (St.Petersburg) and have 600+ app downloads. 
Team: 5-10 


2017.08 – 2018.02 






Contuur, Cryptology 
Software engineer // Limassol, Cyprus 

Used technologies:
Python
Kafka, Pandas, Postgresql
REST API, WebSocket

On the first step the main purpose was to build arbitrage robot for cryptoexchanges. We write 15+ market data dumpers for such exchanges like Bitfinex, Kraken, Poloniex. The infrastructure had the fine module style design with market data dumping gateways, trading gateways and strategy logic. It’s took us 3 months to start trading workflow and plus 2 months to start make profit. 
 
Team: 3during first 3 months, then 7 people.



2016.09 – 2017.02  






Deep Learning Projects + Student Supervising

Used technologies:
Deep Learning
Convolution NN, Deep NN, Caffe, DIGITS (nVidia)
Regression
Face recognition algorithms, 3d reconstruction algorithms

Main purpose was to study some deep learning techniques via any classic task. The chosen task was the “Face landmark point detection”. Starting from that point I go through various photogrammetry techniques and 3d reconstruction approaches [DenseFace3D], object detection algorithms (YOLO), face alignment algorithms [1-3000fps],[2-FaceX], [DL-MultiTask] . Also I present two seminars on deep learning theme at ITMO University and take some students for co-working and co-creation process. The most outstanding results which I found on 3d reconstruction theme were Hao Li researches. The most outstanding both simple modification of DL nets which I studied – Kaiming He: Deep Residual Nets.
Team: 2-25 


2016 






Hero Talk experimental project
Co-Founder, Unity developer // St. Petersburg, Moscow  
herotalk.xyz
Used technologies:
Video 360
VR with Samsung Gear VR
Learning foreign languages and cultures.
Bootstrapping

Slogan: “to show a man, to show the world”. This experimental project was founded during accelerating at the Founder Institute. Starting with idea of using generative VR and neurocinema for speech development I have introduced 360 degree video scenes for language learning. User becomes as a part of typical dialogs with native speakers inside 360 VR environment and experiences inside audio-visual context of various situations. Imagine forks inside video which gives you right feedback. That was all about learning languages and cultureelements in virtual reality.
We have been developing the minimal valuable product and recorded 10+ hours of 360 video. Presentation at Imagine Cup Russian Final is here. 
Team: 5 


2014.08 – 2016







Co-Founder of æMind IDENTiTy project // St. Petersburg 
Developer of BCI, engineer preoccupied in HR, pitching, science communication
www.mindidentity.com (closed)
Used technologies: 
Virtual Reality with Google Cardboard and Oculus
Unity and C#, Python
IVoRy Arduino-based device
BCI NeuroSky Brainwave gadget
We started the project at Science Hackday 2014. As a result of the 48h developing process we have produced mobile application in which you can control a player using ‘meditation’ and ‘attention’ parameters. We won the 1st prize – Best Tech. Idea. Afterwords we took part at the Intel RealSense Challenge 2015 and were in TOP250 ideas. Now the dominant of æMind has changed a bit - we developed the VR suit prototype. The patent was filed (RUS 2016131229/08) and we were nere to the first industrial sample.
Team: 4 at start, 7 at maximum








2012-2013 
Developer at Automated Intelligence Systems Inc.


www.aintsysgroup.com
Key activities & used technologies:  

Stock exchange programming
C/C++, threads, boost; Python daemon
Wolfram Mathematica
Bitcoin Daemon patching
Develop and research the multi-agent system for multi-currency economics


#Finance tech sector 
Team: 2, company size: 100+


2010-2011



Student-researcher and intern at EMC Corporation
www.emc.com
Key activities & used technologies:  
Compression algorithms with JPEG target
MATLAB, C/C++
#Cloud and virtualization sector 
Team: 5+ men, company >16 000 people
Supervised by Ph.D. I. Bocharova my team and me did the first part of the project together. 
I was among 5 students who researched JPEG compression improvements. I become the EMC intern after MATLAB unit and demonstration were finished. My work at EMC was focused on JPEG recompression algorithm implementation for EMC filesystem. C++ was used as a primary language. We recompressed JPEG files by 17% on average.


POST-GRADUATE EDUCATION



2015 – 2019 (pause)

Ph.D. (Physiology)


N.P. Bechtereva Human Brain Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences
→ Neurobiology of Action Programming Laboratory
Supervised by Dr. of Biology, Prof., J. D. Kropotov
Generally, I was free roaming between neurofeedback, brain-computer interfacing and their combinations. I ran an experiment on the visual categorization process., measured EEG and presented visual stimuli for a short time (100 ms), also testees are asked to press the button in special visual cases. In fact, we measure event-related categorization components which I hope to use for BCI. TuSion company was inspired during PhD. F	


EDUCATION AND TRAINING



2013 – 2015



MS in Biology, profile: neurobiology and psychophysiology


Saint-Petersburg State University (SPbSU)
→ Biology Faculty
→→ Higher Nervous Activity and Psychophysiology Department.
Diploma thesis: “Memory consolidation research with Θ–rhythm neurofeedback technique usage”,
supervised by Ph.D., Assistant Prof., I. E. Kanunikov.
More than 80 EEG experiments were hold using Θ–rhythm music neurofeedback protocol which I have developed using MATLAB and OpenVIBE.
The key point to go back to the University was an aspiration to get fine basis in Brain Sciences and Biology in general. After all the world vision was incredibly changed. Each day activity got psychology and physiology dimensions. On the one hand, Saint-Petersburg University shared various approaches of human understanding and research. On the other hand, enough practice hours were spent on animal behavior, EEG, ERP, ECG, acoustics, neuronal colonies and cells topics.




2010-2012  
2006-2010

Master Degree in Computer Science
Bachelor Degree in Computer Science
National Research University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics, Saint-Petersurg
→ Faculty of Information Technologies and Programming
→→ Computer Technologies Department
MS diploma thesis: “Falman neural nets layers generation with genetic programming approach usage”, supervised by prof., dr. of Technical Sciences, I. P. Gurov
BS diploma thesis: “A set of algorithms and programs for behavioral risks assessment in information lack terms”, supervised by prof., dr. of Phys.-Math. Science, A. L. Tulupev

My first neural network, first Common Python Compiler in Common Lisp, first Internet shop, first algorithms of genetic programming, first Markov chain speaking bot for social network VK were coded here. Common Python compiler transformed to dialog programming concept and AML proto language. 


2003-2006
2002-2003


Graduated from Physics-Mathematics Lyceum № 30
Laboratory for Continuous Mathematical Education
Saint-Petersburg




ADDTITONAL TRAINING

2018.09 – 2018.11

Accelerator program: Startup School
YC Online Track


2018.08 – 2018.11

Accelerator program at Starta Ventures for TuSion startup 


Offline Track in New York  + 130k$ investment


2015 – 2018

Diploma in French Civilization


French University College in Saint-Petersburg (at SPbSU)
→ Specializaions: law and philosophy
Topics as civil code, concept and nature of the Contract, French law reformation, law novels, the principle of responsibility, law proofs and proof principles, mechanisms of law transfer, contact compilation terms form the basis of the Law courses. 
Philosophy themes: emancipation, renaissance, French and Russian revolutions, modern revolution ideas and their decline, disillusion, un-idealization and ideal horizon, Russian avant-garde, existence orientation and disorientation, world and political visions, theoretical interpretation and practical transformation.
2015 Fall



Accelerator program


Founder Institute in Saint-Petersburg
→ The program was about startups. Startups are being done here. FI is an idea-stage accelerator.
Main topics: idea development, costumer development, business plans and finance metrics, revenue steps, legal concepts, roles, market research, marketing basics, hiring, outsourcing, sales, presentation and publicity. Here we have mentors, experts, advisors and journalists. Hero Talk project was born here. During 3 months we were developing projects and were meeting for pitching, listening for experts on Mondays. After all, I think that FI is a big step at the beginning of the entrepreneurship road.
#Startups and entrepreneurship





Courses:


 Creative Programming for Digital Media & Mobile Apps (2014) [Coursera]
 Malicious Software and its Underground Economy: Two Sides to Every Story (2014) [Coursera]
 An Introduction to Consumer Neuroscience & Neuromarketing (2016) [Coursera]
 Art & Ideas: Teaching with Themes (2016) [Coursera]
 Mastring web3.0 with Waves: RIDE for dApps (2019) [Waves | Stepic.ru]
 Cryptography I, author: Dan Boneh (2019) [Coursera]
 Building AI Powered Chatbots Without Programming (2019) [Coursera]


PERSONAL SKILLS
 


Mother tongue(s)
Russian




Other language(s)
UNDERSTANDING 
SPEAKING 
WRITING 
Listening 
Reading 
Spoken interaction 
Spoken production 


English
Advanced
Proficient
Advanced
Advanced
Intermediate
German
Basics
Basics
Basics
Basics
Basics
Chinese
-
Starting
-
Early beginning
Starting


Communication skills
Fine communication and leadership skills. I am very socialized person and participated as a member of various clubs and organizations: dance and experimental music clubs, judo, karate, wing-chun, aikido and wu-shu sections, coders and biologists teams, volunteering, painting and scientist schools. People and horizontal communication my best friends.


Organisational / managerial skills
Supervised Highest Mathematics bachelor student Tatiana Kryazh at ITMO University with theme “Recognition EEG Patterns”. Tatiana successfully graduated at 17 June 2017.   
Organized HeroTalk (2016) and aeMind IDENTiTy (2014) (Co-Founder) startups.
Organized the ITMO student team for Microsoft Imagine Cup 2015, 
the team won St.Petersburg stage winners and participate at All-Russian MS IC Final. 
Organized the aeMind team for Intel RealSense Challenge 2015. Awarded as one of TOP250 projects.
Managed one developer during my work at AIS (2013).
Hold 200 EEG experiments with people during my MS at SPbSU and PhD at IHB RAS.
Co-organized night lucid-dream experiments at SPbSU (in team with V. Skabelkin) (2014).
Organized A. N. Shepovalnikov’s public lecture at SPbSU (2014).
Presented a social project “Multi-Disciplinary Society: Synesthesies” at Sense Land Forum, Vladimir, 2015.


Computer languages


1999 - 2000
Basic, my first language
2000 - 2006
Pascal, Delphi
2003 - now
C
2007 - now
C++
2003 – now
2005 – now
Perl
complex shell scripts: Perl, BASH, awk, sed
2004 - [2013]
Assembler
2007 - now
Java
2008 - 2010, 2014 - now
C#, C# inside Unity
2010 - now
Python. Py is my common language by the way.
2010 - now
Mathematica
2011 – rare now
2011 – now
2011 - now
2013 – now
2017 - now
2019 – now
2019-now
Common Lisp with Schema. I opened None-language on January 2016. 
J (APL/J)
AML, sometimes I develop principles, examples and snippets for that language. 
JavaScript and Node.Js
Kotlin
RIDE for decentralized applications (smartcontracts)
Typescript. like it.


Computer skills
MS Windows and Linux with 6 years on Gentoo Linux. 

These programming libs I were used in different times: Socket, QT (PyQT, PyQWT), MFC, WinAPI, TJPG, OpenGL, DirectX, Tk, AIChip, Apache Thrift, Clojuratica, QuickFIX, CppTcl & CppTk, Bitcoind, Boost, Pandas. Have deal with OllyDbg and IDA Pro. Also I used Caffe and DIGITS frameworks for deep learning for a bit. Love Kafka as stream DB.

Summing up, I am inclined in high-level notations that can be improved by problem-depended concepts. DSL is a good example. Also I appreciate graceful concepts which lie within APL(J) languages; that way of thinking leads to succinctly understanding of the problem. C++ was the primary language wherever I have worked before Waves. I prefer Python, Perl and inter-language communication. Also I experienced with neurogadgets such as Emotiv Headset, Neurosky Brainwave, MUSE and clinical EEG devices like MITSAR.




Awards & achievements


2019
2018
Launched homepage at silkmind.com
Acceleration in New York Accelerator with a super high-tech neuro startup TuSion.
2018
Profitable arbitrage trading strategy developed from ZERO (with team in Cyprus).
2017


My first supervised bachelor student Tatiana Kryazh who graduated from ITMO University, with BS. Tatiana’s diploma theme was “Recognition of EEG Patterns”.
2017
1st place at Visual Art hackathon (VR nomination) with TuSion VR Space app, SPb
2017
Won 4000$ at Legal School International at Ingria accelerator for startup law support.
2016
Microsoft Imagine Cup Final with proj. Hero Talk (Moscow)
2016
Project: VR Tetris: existence. Prize on AR & VR Hackathon at St.Petersburg
2015
Our Microsoft Imagine Cup team aeMind IDEntiTY won North-Western subregion final
2015
First grant. S.M.A.R.T. & IIDF, Bortnikov foundation
Project: “Development of the psychology and psychophysiology interactive model of two-side
human interaction and virtual reality. Conscious and unconscious changes of measured 
psychophysiology parameters are used for model controlling”.
Total: 8.000 USD
2015
Intel Real Sense Challenge, TOP250 ideas. Won: NUC PC & 2 RealSense Cameras
2014
First registered night lucid dream using EEG at Biology Faculty (in team with V. Skabelkin). We repeat a classic LaBerge experiment with TDCS. The idea was to send a message using eye-movement during sleep-state with support of Ursula Voss reports style. Also I classify it as my greatest hack ^.
2014
Saint-Petersburg Science Hackday, 1st place: best tech idea
2013


A.I. Contest” at www.CoderCharts.com, TOP5 winners
Coderchars was similar to modern hackerrank.
2003
3rd place at programming contest among Saint-Petersburg Schools for of the eighth grade pupils.




Developed tools 




2020






2013
Just Mem It (JMI) tool – tool for memory and skill development. 
About. Tool based on forgetting curve idea. You add information you want to memorise in terms of title, description and hint. Then choose a reminder scale for example: 20 minutes, then 8 hour, 1 day, 1 week and so on. JMI will pop-up with reminder window.  
Used technologies: Python 3.7 with dataclasses and TK (tkinter).
Links: git, development flow and time calculator for remind scales.

fp – file preload tool. Fp generates C code for preloading binary code (like .dll and .so) before running any program. Was useful for solving conflicts in Linux packages.  
Links: git. 

Volunteering 


  2019

2013-2015
  2006
Chaos Constructions 2019. CC is a largest Computer Art festival in Russia; best demo party. SPb
Took part in 20+ of psychology experiments at SPbSU, Psychology Faculty.
Volunteer at ACM ICPC 2006-2007 semi-finals (North-western sub region), SPb

Teaching 


2019.07 – 2019.08

2016.10 - 2016.12


2014


ASP.NET + MVC at Full-stack programming school #ingoscode. Collaborative educ project between Phoenix educ-company, Ingostrah company and MIPT, [25 students], Moscow

Course “Algorithms of Brain-Computer Interface (BCI)”, ITMO University
Discussing and implementing modern algorithms of BCI with Computer Science students.
After course had two students on themes: BCI+DeepLearning.
Public lecture for high school pupils on topic “Dreams. History of somnology. Waking sleep cycle. Modern hypothesis”, SPbSU Open Lecture initiative


Oral reports


2019
inchamp.ru: Can neurotechnologies help to grow a super-genie child?  
2018
“Brain-Computer is talking”, Y.Konoplev, Winter Psychology School at SPbSU
2016
“Review of data-smashing processing principle”, Y. Konoplev, IEEE International Symposium «Video and audio signal processing in the context of Neurotechnologies», SPb, Russia
2016
“Hacking the unconscious physiology”, Y. Konoplev, HackMeeting 0x13, Italy, Pisa
2012
“Falman Neural Nets Layers Generation with Genetic Programming Approach Usage”, Y. Konoplev, SPISOK 2012 (SPbSU), SPb, Russia




Schools & Conferences
Brain-Computer Interfaces meetups in NY, Oct-Nov 2018
International Art-therapy Conference IX, Moscow, May 18-20, 2018
Social Engineering School, August 2016, August 2017 
Sense Land: Young scientists and teachers of IT. Vladimirskaja area, July 2016
International Winter Psychology School at Saint-Peterburg State University, Leningradskaja area, Vostok-6, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019
Complexity Session, Skolkovo Open University, Moscow, 2015
Healthy and Damaged Brain, IHB RAS, St.Petersburg, 2015
Sense Land: Non-profit Social Orgranizations, Vladimirskaja area, 2015
St.Petersburg International Innovation Forum, SPb, 2014
Technological brokers for Science-Industry Communication, ITMO, SPb, 2014
Summer neurolinquistic school “Introduction to the Contemprorary Neurolinquistics”, HSE, Moscow, 2013
High-performance Computing and Computer Modelling: The Big Data World, ITMO, SPb, 2013


Driving licence


Yes
Patents
2016.07.28






A
System and method for virtual object managing
[number: 2016131229/08 (048521), in Russia]
Co-author with V. Konovalov, S. Kapulkin and A. Bilichenko.
This patent support aeMind IDEntity startup and describes the principle of interpretation motor micromovement and its translation to full-range movements inside virtual reality.

 
Publications
2018



2012
A
Grin-Yatsenko, V. A., Othmer, S., Ponomarev, V. A., Evdokimov, S. A., Konoplev, Y. Y., & Kropotov, J. D. 
Infra-Low Frequency Neurofeedback in Depression: Three case studies
NeuroRegulation, 5(1), 2018

Yuri Y. Konoplev, [2012] 
Falman Neural Nets Layers Generation with Genetic Programming Approach Usage
Conferences: KMU 2012: Computer Technologies and Artificial Intelligence Section, SPISOK 2012 





References








Anatoly Abramovich Shalyto
Head of Programming Technologies Department at Information Technologies Mechanics and Optics University, Ph.D., Dr. of Technical Sciences, Prof.
anatoly.shalyto@gmail.com, shalyto@mail.ifmo.ru
http://is.ifmo.ru/

Igor Evgenivich Kanunikov
Head of Electroencephalography Laboratory at Saint-Petersburg State University, Ph.D., Assistant Prof. 
igorkan@mail.ru
http://www.bio.spbu.ru/staff/id45_iek.php 

Victoria Anatolievna Knazeva
Secretary and Senior Lecturer at Higher Nervous Activity and Psychophysiology Department, Biology Faculty, Saint-Petersburg State University, Ph.D.
vnd@spbu.ru, v.knyazeva@spbu.ru 
http://www.bio.spbu.ru/faculty/departments/vnd/

